So now let's work on a slightly different object this beer can here.
What I'd like it to look like let me come back over here and create a new window and create a U.V. image
editor and I'll bring in an image that I'd like this to ultimately be something like this.
We can see we've got some chrome or metal material down at the bottom here and up at the top and then
we've got the label of the can here.
So to get that label on there we're going to need to use the map or object to lay it flat once again
and apply that texture.
Now the texture I'd like to apply is this one here so I've found this out on google images and it matches
pretty well to the image here of the beer can.
It's just one year off in terms of the Super Bowl and the date.
In addition I have some images of the tops of cans we could use one of these for the top.
But before we can do any of that we need to U-V map this so I'll switch over to my U-V editing screen
lay.
I'll go ahead and pull this window down and switch it over to node Ed. The way we've done before.
And for this I'll tab into edit mode and the first thing I'll do is split out the top and the bottom
so I think from what I could tell it looks like we could mark a scene here with control E and Mark.
And also we could mark a seam down here maybe this one control key and Mark seam.
Now we need to split that label out so it will lay flat press alt and click this edge here and we'll
go ahead and de-select the edges along the top here.
We don't need these.
There we go.
And all de-select the edges down here as well.
To do that I can hit the C key and then middle mouse button click and drag to de-select those edges.
All press control E and Mark seam and now we have the seams of our object marked and ready to go.
One thing I'll do before I unwrap it is press control a and I'll go ahead and apply this scale.
And now Alt-Tab into Edit Mode hit a and you and unwrap and there we go.
Now this is a little bit curved here.
The image I have is very rectangular and straight.
This is not quite what I'd want.
I can try switching from angle based to conformal and see if that helps switch that here.
And that helps a good deal.
We're still fighting against this area here that curves in and that's just the nature of this particular
object.
So what can we do about this.
Well we can come over here and I'm going to go ahead and select just this object with the U-V Island
selection mode and I'm going to go to full screen here all press control up arrows so we can see it
full screen.
I'll rotate it with our 9:0 and that didn't work so I'll hit escape and press are negative 9:0.
And that did a little better.
I'll move this to one side to work on it and zoom in some what I'd like to do is make these edges perfectly
straight so I can use the tools under this Uvas menu right up here under weld line and I can use these
line x and y.
Notice that the shortcut key is the W key.
If I switch over here to edge select click on this edge right here I'll press alt and then click on
it just like that whole edge.
Now I can press w and align Y and that straightens that whole edge out.
So now let's see if I can do that for these other edges as well.
I'll select this one here w and if you look real close you can see that the short cut for a line Y is
the key.
So I'll just hit.
And that will straighten that edge up once again Allt w I.
And I'll do those up here.
Alt WSI Alt.
Click.
W-why and I'll just keep doing that for every horizontal edge.
And lastly one more up here.
W and.
All right.
So I have all the horizontal edges in line.
Now I need to do the vertical so I'll press alt and click an edge here.
Press the W key and for the align x.
The shortcut key is l.
So I'll hit L and that will align that vertical edge straight up and down.
So Allt click W.L. alt click W.L. and I'll go through and do all of these as well.
And one more here.
OK so now we have that whole area straightened up and aligned all press control up arrow and we can
click on the stretch here to see if we have any stretching.
Not bad.
We've got some here but I don't think this is going to be a problem because this isn't going to have
any text applied to it or anything it's going to be a uniform metallic color.
So I think we should be fine with this.
Now go ahead and select all of the U-V islands with the achy press control a and press control.
Now I'd like to rotate these so the label is aligned horizontally.
Uncheck this and there we go.
Maybe I'll take the margin from point 0 0 1 to point 1 to spread those out just a little bit.
And even so that may still be a little snug.
So I'll select the U-V Island selection mode and move these out just a little bit give them some room
to breathe.
All right.
And there we go we've got our U-V map done.
Let's go ahead and assign that U-V grid test pattern just to make sure we're doing all right.
So to create a new test grid texture I'll click on new and I'll call this U-V test and I'll change the
generated type to U-V grid and I'll go ahead and leave it at 10:24 by 10:24 and click OK.
And there it is.
Now let's come up here and create a material that we can apply that new texture to create new and I'll
call this material U-V test as well.
I'll press shift A and bring in an image texture node and now we can pull this menu down and select
our U-V test grid.
Now come over here and change our viewport shading to textured and there we are.
Let's take a look at it.
It doesn't look too bad actually.
The top looks good.
The bottom looks good and all the checkers on the sides look square and uniform.
I think that looks pretty good.
All right.
So now we can take this U-V map and export it out and take it into gimp just like we did before.
Click Uvas export U-V lay out.
I'll go ahead and choose 10:24 by 10:24 this time I'll put it in my textures folder and I'll call this
one beer can underscore Uvas and there it goes.
So now let's once again open it up and get up and lay the textures out.